Glossary for HTTP MESSAGE HEADERS
Accept is a type of request header fields which is used for specifying a certain media types which are being acceptable for the response or server side. These Accept headers can also be used to identify if the request is specifically limited in small group of desired media types.
Accept-Charset is a request header field which is used in indicating on what set of character are accepted in the response. The Accept-Character header fields let the clients being capable of understanding the more inclusive or the special-purpose type of character sets in order to signal the capability to the server in which it is capable of presenting the documents in those chosen character sets.
Accept-Encoding is a request header field which is the same as to Accept, but in this limits the content-coding which is acceptable by the response. It is used to control if the server or not may sent the content in a compressed form.
Authorization is a request header field which consist of the credentials that contains the information of the authentication of the client for the resource that is being requested.
Cache-control is used to identify the directives that is being obeyed by the caching mechanism in the request or response chain. It is also used by the http client and/or server to specify the parameters for the cache and also used to request kinds of documents from the cache.
Close Connection is an option for the client to signal in which the connection is to be closed when the response is being complete.
Connection is a general-header field in which it allows a sender to specify the options that are being desired for a specific connection and this shouldn’t be communicated by any proxies in any connections.
Date is a general header field which specifies the exact date and time when the message is originated. The date is always in Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
Entity header fields is the meta-data about the entity-body, but if there is no body, the information about the resource being acknowledged by the request is added. It provides the information of the resource that is carried in the body of the HTTP message, which is called the entity.
Expect  is a request header field is used in indicating the specific set of server behaviors  which is required by the client.  It indicates of what type of action in which the client is expecting the server what to perform.
From is a request header field which contains the e-mail address of the user which controls the requesting client. This header field might use in logging purposes and also used to identify the source of the unwanted requests.
General Header Fields is used both in client and server. General headers are primarily used to communicate information about the message alone as it resists to what is its content. It also gives the general information of the message and controls the message as how it is processed and handled
HTTP Protocol is the communication of takes place in a way of exchanging of requests and response messages between the client and a server.
HTTP message headers is also called the HTTP header fields. It provides the information about the requests or a response, and sometimes to the object being sent in the message body.
Keep-Alive Connection in which it is a persistent connection, which means the connection doesn’t close automatically when the execution is done.
Pragma is a general header field which is used to include the implementation-specific directives which may apply to any of the recipient in the request or response chain.
Request header fields is only applicable in request, only clients use this. It is only used in HTTP request messages. It serves as a request modifiers in the message.
Response header fields is only used by the servers. It is the opposite of request header fields, it only appears in response messages which is being sent by the servers. This header fields provides the information about the server and information on the access to the resource which is identified by the Request-URI.
Trailer is a general header field which indicates the given set of the header field is said to be present in the trailer in the message encoded with the chunked transfer coding.
Upgrade is a general header field which allow a client to identify the additional communication protocols that it supports and like to use when the server found it appropriate to switch between protocols.
Via is a general header field is used by gateways and the proxies which indicates an intermediate protocols and also recipients. It is intended as a tracking messages forwards, also avoiding the request loops  and identifying the capabilities of the protocol of any of the sender in the request chain and also in response chain.  
Warning is a general header fields that is usually used to carry the additional information which is about the status of a message that shouldn’t be reflected in the message.
