Server-side scripting is a strategy utilized as a part of web development which includes utilizing scripts on a web server which deliver a reaction altered for every client's demand to the site. The option is for the web server itself to convey a static website page. Scripts can be composed in any of various server-side scripting dialects that are accessible (see underneath). Server-side scripting is recognized from customer side scripting where installed scripts, for example, JavaScript, are run customer side in a web program, yet both systems are regularly utilized together. 

Server-side scripting is frequently used to give a redid interface to the client. These scripts may gather customer qualities for use in altering the reaction in light of those attributes, the client's necessities, get to rights, and so forth. Server-side scripting additionally empowers the site proprietor to shroud the source code that creates the interface, while with customer side scripting, the client has admittance to all the code got by the customer. A drawback to the utilization of server-side scripting is that the customer needs to make additionally asks for over the system to the server so as to show new data to the client by means of the web program. These solicitations can back off the experience for the client, put more load on the server, and counteract utilization of the application when the client is separated from the server. 

At the point when the server serves information in a regularly utilized way, for instance as indicated by the HTTP or FTP conventions, clients may have their decision of various customer programs (most current web programs can ask for and get information utilizing both of those conventions). On account of more specific applications, developers may compose their own particular server, customer, and interchanges convention that must be utilized with each other. 

Programs that keep running on a client's PC while never sending or getting information over a system are not considered customers, thus the operations of such projects would not be considered customer side operations.
