The Boolean object is an object wrapper for a boolean value.

Syntax:
	new Boolean([value])

Parameters:
	value
		-Discretionary. The underlying value of the Boolean object.

Description:
	The value go as the main parameter is changed over to a boolean value, if fundamental. On the off chance that the value is precluded or is 0, - 0, invalid, false, NaN, unclear, or the void string (""), the object has an underlying estimation of false. In the event that the DOM protest document.all is passed as a parameter, the new boolean object likewise has an underlying estimation of false. Every single other value, including any object or the string "false", make a protest with an underlying estimation of true. 

	Try not to confound the primitive Boolean values true and false with the true and false estimations of the Boolean object.


Boolean Instances

Every single Boolean example acquire from Boolean.prototype. Similarly as with all constructors, the model protest manages examples' acquired properties and methods. 


Properties 

Boolean.prototype.constructor 

Gives back the capacity that made an occurrence's model. This is the Boolean capacity as a matter of course. 


Methods 

Boolean.prototype.toSource() 

	Gives back a string containing the wellspring of the Boolean protest; you can utilize this string to make an identical question. Supersedes the Object.prototype.toSource() method. 

Boolean.prototype.toString() 

	Gives back a string of either "true" or "false" contingent on the estimation of the protest. Abrogates the Object.prototype.toString() technique. 

Boolean.prototype.valueOf() 

	Gives back the primitive estimation of the Boolean question. Supersedes the Object.prototype.valueOf() method.

References:
tickyd, bellentuck, nmve, fscholz, fasttime, rwaldron, Thebigbignooby, cloudbehl, Akkifokkusu, trebor1110, teoli, mvasilkov, clyra0791, deveedutta, Mingun, Sheppy, cbier90, xiongxin, ethertank, ziyunfei, evilpie, lmorchard, berkerpeksag, secoif, grendel, Sevenspade, Potappo, Mgjbot, Yuichirou, BenoitL, Maian, Marcoos, Dria (2017, March 9) Boolean. Retrieved from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean