2. XHTML Style Sheet Module

2.1 style element
Attributes

The Common collection

A colection of other characteristic accumulations, including: Core, Events, I18N, Bi-directional, Edit, Embedding, Map, and Hypertext 

disabled = "disabled" 

Whenever introduced, this boolean quality makes the present component idle (e.g., an "disabled" style component would have its styles expelled from the dynamic style accumulation).

media = MediaDesc 

The estimation of this characteristic determines the kind of media for which the component is expected. 

The style component permits a creator to put template governs in the leader of the record. XHTML allows any number of style components in the head area of a report. 

Client operators that don't bolster templates, or don't bolster the particular template dialect utilized by a style component, must conceal the substance of the style component. It is a mistake to render the substance as a major aspect of the report's content. 

The sentence structure of style information relies on upon the template dialect. 

Rules for style govern priorities and legacy rely on upon the template dialect. 

Example: 

<head> 

<style type="text/css"> 

h1 {border-width: thin; fringe style: strong; content adjust: center} 

</style> 

</head>

2.1.1 External style sheets
Authors may isolate templates from XHTML archives. This offers a few advantages: 

>Authors and site directors may share templates over various archives (and locales). 

>Authors may change the template without obliging adjustments to the report. 

>User Agents may stack templates specifically (in view of media descriptors).

2.1.2 Preferred and alternate style sheets
XHTML permits authors to relate any number of outer style sheets with a document. The style sheet language characterizes how numerous outside templates communicate (for instance, the CSS "cascade" rules). 

Authors may determine various fundamentally unrelated style sheet called alternate style sheets. Clients may choose their most loved among these relying upon their inclinations. For example, a creator may determine one template intended for little screens and another for clients with feeble vision (e.g., vast textual styles). User Agents ought to permit clients to choose from alternate style sheets. 

The author may determine that one of the exchanges is a favored style sheet. User agents ought to apply the author's favored style sheet unless the client has chosen an alternate substitute. 

Authors may aggregate a few alternate templates (counting the author's favored style sheet) under a solitary style name. At the point when a client chooses a named style, the user agent must apply all style sheets with that name. User Agents must not have any significant bearing substitute Style sheet with an alternate style name. The area on determining external style sheet discloses how to name a gathering of style sheets. 

2.1.3 Specifying external style sheets
Authors determine external style sheets with the accompanying properties of the connection component: 

Set the estimation of href to the area of the style sheet document. The estimation of href is a URI. 

Set the estimation of the sort credit to demonstrate the language of the connected (style sheet) asset. This permits the user agent to abstain from downloading a style sheet for an unsupported style sheet language. 

Determine that the style sheet is industrious, favored, or alternate: 

To make a style sheet diligent, set the rel credit to "style sheet" and don't set the title trait. 

To make a style sheet favored, set the rel credit to "style sheet" and name the template with the title trait. 

To determine an other style sheet, set the rel credit to "alternate style sheet" and name the style sheet with the title property. 

User agents ought to give a way to clients to view and pick from the rundown of interchange styles. The estimation of the title trait is prescribed as the name of every decision. 

In this case, we first determine a constant template situated in the record mystyle.css: 

<link href="mystyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/> 

Setting the title characteristic makes this the creator's favored template: 

<link href="mystyle.css" title="compact" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/> 

Including the catchphrase "interchange" to the rel trait makes it an other template: 

<link href="mystyle.css" title="Medium" rel="alternate template" type="text/css"/> 

In the event that at least two connection components determine a favored style sheet, the first outweighs everything else.

Reference:
XHTML Style Sheet Module (2017 March 15) Retrieved from https://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml2/mod-styleSheet.html
